Drought is a natural disaster that comes with high hazardous impacts on society. Drought in India has resulted in tens of millions of deaths over the course of the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries. Indian agriculture is heavily dependent on the climate of India: a favorable southwest summer monsoon is critical in securing water for irrigating Indian crops. In some parts of India, the failure of the monsoons result in water shortages, resulting in below-average crop yields. This is particularly true of major drought-prone regions such as southern and eastern Maharashtra northern Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Gujarat,Telangana and Rajasthan.

Due to the random nonlinear nature of drought variables, drought prediction is a challenging problem. This project aims to make drought predictions using a deep learning approach.Artifical Neural Networks are good tools modelling time series.But the problem of non- convex optimization occurs when dealing with two or more layers for highly complex systems. Hence training of deep neural networks is not suitable for drought prediction. The approach we aim to use is that of a Deep Belief Network, built using Restricted Boltzmann Machines.These have shown great promise for time-series predictions recently. The input used would be values of Standardized Streamflow Index. 
We hope to use data from a region in India and build a model which will be able to predict the likelihood of a drought occurring there in the future, thereby allowing the government and the people to be better prepared for the calamity.
